---
title: "COMS 3251, Computational Linear Algebra"
collection: teaching
permalink: /teaching/coms3251
semester: Spring 2021, Spring 2020
---

This course is an introduction to linear algebra and its usage in computational applications. The study of linear equations, linear functions, and their representations pervades numerous fields of study. Students will learn and practice fundamental ideas of linear algebra and simultaneously be exposed to and work with real-world applications of these ideas. As the complementary course to COMS 3203, this course will continue emphasizing a rigorous approach to mathematics, which will serve as a foundation for future courses like computer graphics, machine learning, and robotics. The learning and usage of Python and libraries such as NumPy is an essential component of the course, as is the development of basic skills of computational programming.

## Course Objectives
- Identify and utilize properties of vectors and matrices to manipulate and operate on them.
- Perform fundamental matrix operations and understand their interpretation as systems of linear equations and  linear transformations.
- Identify and utilize representations and properties of vector spaces, including bases, dimension, and orthogonality.
- Practice and solve elementary optimization problems, particularly in the context of least squares.
- Solve for and understand the interpretation of eigenvalues and eigenvectors in matrices.
- Perform decompositions of matrices, including eigenvalue and singular value decomposition.
- Formulate and solve problems in computer science applications, including 3D transformations, linear regression, Markov chains, and principal components analysis.
- Demonstrate proficiency in Python for elementary programming tasks.
- Demonstrate proficiency in NumPy and related libraries for scientific computational tasks involving real data.

## Prerequisites
- Calculus I; an additional calculus course and Discrete Math (COMS 3203) strongly recommended
- Programming experience: COMS 1004 or COMS 1006 or equivalent 

## List of Topics
1. Python and NumPy
2. Vectors, vector operations
3. Matrices, matrix operations
4. Systems of linear equations, row echelon form
5. Gaussian elimination
6. Vector spaces, matrix subspaces
7. Linear independence, basis, dimension
8. Fundamental subspaces, change of basis
9. Linear transformations
10. Orthogonality, projections
11. Least squares, regression
12. Orthonormal bases, Gram-Schmidt
13. Determinants
14. Eigenvalues and eigenvectors
15. Diagonalization
16. Dynamical systems, Markov chains
17. Symmetric matrices, SVD
18. SVD computation and interpretatin
19. PCA and SVD applications
20. Probability and random variables
21. Continuous probability distributions
22. Joint probabilities, covariance matrices
23. Multivariate Gaussians
