---
title: "COMS 4733, Computational Aspects of Robotics"
collection: teaching
permalink: /teaching/coms4733
semester: Spring 2024, Fall 2021, Spring 2021, Spring 2019
---

This course is an introduction to fundamental problems and algorithms in robotics from a computer scientist’s perspective. While robotics is inherently a broad and interdisciplinary field, we will primarily focus on ideas with roots in computer science, as well as the roles that a computer scientist would play in robotics research or engineering tasks. Topics include configuration spaces, kinematics, search and sampling-based planning, state estimation, localization and mapping, perception, and learning.

## Course Objectives
- Identify and define overarching algorithmic problems in robotics.
- Define configuration space representations of robots and their environments.
- Derive and the forward and velocity kinematics of robot manipulators.
- Implement a variety of search-based, combinatorial, and sampling-based planning algorithms.
- Formulate and use models of robot system components, including motion and sensor models.
- Derive and implement Kalman and Bayes filters for state estimation, localization, and mapping.
- Gain an awareness of perception and learning applications in robotics.

## Prerequisites
- Data Structures
- Proficiency in Python
- Linear algebra
- Multivariable calculus
- Probability and statistics

## List of Topics
1. Rigid-body transformations
2. Configuration spaces
3. Forward, inverse, and velocity kinematics
4. Search-based planning
5. Dynamic replanning
6. Combinatorial motion planning
7. Sampling-based planning (PRM, RRT)
8. Probabilistic models
9. Bayes and histogram filters
10. Particle filters and MC localization
11. Kalman filters, EKF and localization
12. Bayes filters, particle filters
13. EKF-SLAM, particle filter SLAM
14. Grid occupancy mapping
15. EKF-SLAM, FastSLAM
16. Robot perception
17. Convolutional neural networks
18. Reinforcement and imitation learning
