---
title: "COMS 3203, Discrete Mathematics"
collection: teaching
permalink: /teaching/coms3203
semester: Fall 2023, Fall 2022, Spring 2019
---

The study of discrete mathematics provides an important foundation for basic theoretical principles in computer science. The first third of the course builds a strong background in logic, formal proofs, and mathematical induction, followed by a theoretical examination of functions and relations. With this knowledge in hand, we will then cover number theory and modular arithmetic, counting and combinatorics, discrete probability, recurrence relations, and finally foundations of graph theory. Throughout the course, we will also see computer science applications and practice writing implementations in Python.

## Course Objectives
- Understand fundamental and rigorous ideas underlying discrete mathematics, namely that of theorems, proofs, and propositional logic.
- Apply rigorous proof techniques, including direct proofs, proof by counterexample, proof by contradiction, and proof by induction.
- Manipulate and describe relationships between sets of objects using relations and functions.
- Understand basic concepts in number theory, such as gcd, factoring, and modular arithmetic, and apply them to applications such as cryptography.
- Count various sets or operations on objects, write combinatorial proofs, and characterize limits of countability.
- Solve discrete probability problems, compute properties of random variables, and apply common probability distributions.
- Understand basic concepts in graph theory, including Eulerian and planar graphs, and their usage in modeling a variety of CS problems.

## Prerequisites
- An introductory programming course (COMS 1004/1007)
- Mathematical maturity past single-variable calculus is strongly recommended

## List of Topics
1. Set theory
2. Propositional and predicate logic
3. Rules of inference
4. Direct proofs; proof by cases, contrapositive, counterexample
5. Mathematical induction, strong induction
6. Functions
7. Relations, equivalence relations
8. Number theory, divisibility
12. Modular arithmetic
13. GCD, Euclid's algorithm
14. Prime numbers and factoring
15. Cryptography, RSA
16. Permutations and combinations
17. Combinations with repetition, binomial coefficients
18. Discrete probability and random variables
19. Joint and conditional distributions
20. Special probability distributions
21. Graph theory, special graphs
22. Graph connectedness and trees
23. Eulerian trails and cycles
24. Hamiltonian trails and cycles
25. Graph isomorphism, planarity
