---
title: "COMS 4733, Computational Aspects of Robotics"
collection: teaching
permalink: /teaching/coms4733
semester: Spring 2019
---

This course is an introduction to robotics from a computer scientist’s perspective. While robotics is inherently broad and interdisciplinary, we will primarily focus on ideas with roots in computer science, as well as the roles that a computer scientist would play in a robotics research or engineering task. At the same time, students will learn the necessary tools for communication and cooperation with other engineers in order to develop a working robot system, including the ability to read and implement ideas from robotics research papers.

## Course Objectives
- Efficiently and critically read and analyze seminal technical research papers.
- Implement ideas or algorithms described in technical papers for real problems.
- Develop kinematic models for an arbitrary manipulator or wheeled robot.
- Solve the forward, inverse, and differential kinematics problems.
- Develop simple feedback controllers for an arbitrary motion control problem.
- Understand and implement different trajectory planning approaches.
- Utilize probabilistic approaches, e.g. particle and Kalman filters, for state estimation, localization, and mapping.
- Incorporate relevant ideas in computer vision and the visual servoing problem.

## Prerequisites
Data structures (COMS 3134/3137), but strong preference will be given to those who have taken artificial intelligence (COMS 4701) or machine learning (COMS 4771) and performed well. Relevant ideas from these courses will be reviewed; students are expected to seek help if needed, either from the teaching staff or on their own. Mathematical maturity with probability and linear algebra is expected, along with sufficient programming experience such that students can debug code on their own.

## List of Topics
1. Course introduction
2. Rigid body motions
3. Forward kinematics
4. Inverse kinematics
5. Differential kinematics
6. Inverse differential kinematics
7. Numerical inverse kinematics
8. Trajectory planning
9. Mobile robots and planning
10. Bug algorithms
11. Motion control
12. Roadmap methods (VGRAPH, voronoi)
13. Cell decomposition
14. Potential fields
15. Probabilistic planning (PRM, RRT)
16. Bayesian filtering
17. Kalman and particle filters
18. Graph SLAM
19. EKF-SLAM and FastSLAM
20. Image processing
21. Pose estimation and visual servoing
22. Model learning
23. Reinforcement learning
24. Advanced applications
